



CoRE                                                          C. Amsuess
Internet-Draft                                          January 26, 2018
Intended status: Informational
Expires: July 30, 2018


                     Resource Directory Replication
        draft-amsuess-core-resource-directory-replication-latest

Abstract

   Discovery of endpoints and resources in M2M applications over large
   networks is enabled by Resource Directories, but no special
   consideration has been given to how such directories can scale beyond
   what can be managed by a single device.

   This document explores different ways in which Resource Directories
   can be scaled up from single network to enterprise and global scale.
   It does not attempt to standardize any of those methods, but only to
   demonstrate the feasibility of such extensions and to provide
   terminology and exploratory groundwork for later documents.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on July 30, 2018.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2018 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents



Amsuess                   Expires July 30, 2018                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft       Resource Directory Replication         January 2018


   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.

1.  Introduction

   @@@ see abstract for now

2.  Terminology

   @@@

   Origin Server from [RFC7252]

3.  Goals of upscaling

   The following sections outline different reasons why a Resource
   Directory should be scaled beyond a singe device.  Not all of them
   will necessarily apply to all use cases, and not all solution
   approaches might be suitable for all goals.

3.1.  Large numbers of registrations

   Even at 1kB of link data per registration, modern server hardware can
   easily keep the data of millions of registrations in RAM
   simultaneously.  Thus, the mere size of registration data is not
   expected to be a factor that requires scaling to multiple nodes.

   The traffic produced when millions of nodes with the default 24h
   lifetime amounts to tens of exchanges per second, which is doable
   with equal ease at central network equipment.

   However, if the directory has additional interaction with its
   registered nodes, for example because it provides proxying to
   registered endpoints, resources like file descriptors can be
   exhausted earlier, and the traffic load on the registration server
   grows with the traffic it is proxying for the endpoint.

3.2.  Large amounts of requests

   Not all approaches to constrained restful communication use the
   Resource Directory only in the setup stage; some are might also
   utilize a Resource Directory in more day-to-day operation.

   @@@ get some numbers on how many requests a single RD can deal with




Amsuess                   Expires July 30, 2018                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft       Resource Directory Replication         January 2018


3.3.  Redundancy

   With the RD as a central part of CoRE infrastructures, outages can
   affect a large number of users.

   A decentralized RD should be able to deal both with scheduled
   downtimes of hosts as well as unexpected outages of hosts or parts of
   the network, especially with network splits between the individual
   parts of the directory.

4.  Approaches

4.1.  Shared authority / anycast

   When used with the CoAP protocol over UDP or DTLS, a Resource
   Directory can be served from an anycast addresses, which is reflected
   in the authority component of all RD resources.  From the clients'
   point of view, all interaction happens from the same Origin Server.

   In this setup, the replication is hidden from the REST interactions,
   and takes place inside the RD server implementation or its database
   backend.

   @@@ delegation to replication under the RD

4.2.  Plain caching

4.3.  RD-aware caching

4.4.  Distinct entry points

   @@@ registration and handover

   @@@ replication of contents vs forwarding of requests

   @@@ using foreign registration URIs

5.  Informative References

   [I-D.ietf-core-resource-directory]
              Shelby, Z., Koster, M., Bormann, C., Stok, P., and C.
              Amsuess, "CoRE Resource Directory", draft-ietf-core-
              resource-directory-12 (work in progress), October 2017.

   [RFC7252]  Shelby, Z., Hartke, K., and C. Bormann, "The Constrained
              Application Protocol (CoAP)", RFC 7252,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7252, June 2014,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7252>.



Amsuess                   Expires July 30, 2018                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft       Resource Directory Replication         January 2018


Author's Address

   Christian Amsuess
   Hollandstr. 12/4
   1020
   Austria

   Phone: +43-664-9790639











































Amsuess                   Expires July 30, 2018                 [Page 4]
